APPENDIX A

After getting my Focus Pass<sup>TM</sup>, I had the opportunity to be in multiple-business oriented study groups, seasoned managers, and literacy programs. I have learned and applied Agile methods, taught by Curiosity Coaches during onboarding, inside these groups and meetings. I've also learned and applied GitHub Learning Lab. I've also learned the 5Cs of 21st Century learning which includes cultural immersion by working with teams from other countries across different time zones and locally by working with them and volunteering in affiliated non-profits, creativity in developing data analytics and data science and technical documentations, critical thinking in finding problems within the system and experiment with current methods or tools for solutions and constant communication, and collaboration with team members inside Microsoft 365 Environment and GitHub to be in the same page in a project. Through Ignite Curiosity training, it helped me build habits of passion and curiosity which helped me understand the interconnectedness of companies, of different departments of a company, and how the physical laws of the universe may apply. That I must zoom in and out to see the bigger picture and tiny details every so often, to apply thought strategy, agile mapping, and architectural mapping, as learned from Think Dojo.

At first, I had struggles in connecting and applying physics while learning business lingo. By being involved in multiple meetings with Curiosity Coaches and getting invited to meetings with Executives, in my second year of Optional Practical Training (OPT), I am finally confident to use my learnings and observations. And I am still continuously learning.

With my understanding of physics, I was a key player in getting a nameless Business Process Flow (BPF) created with a director on a piece of paper. It includes mapping out the objectives, resources, budget, indicators, and transport necessary to help a startup business get funded through procurements. However, it was not enough to show transparency to the government or any projects. So, we added activities and logistics and due to my influence is now called ORBITAL<sup>TM</sup>. The concept of ORBITAL™ using the laws of physics aim to help startup businesses get launched and get them into orbit in a space of multitudinal companies or grow as a Super Nova. Also, by applying the concept of Atomic Design in physics, I was instrumental in updating their checklists for launching and orbiting.  

In the creation of these complex substances, I also use the constellation of stars concept. There are multiple big and small businesses out there from different industries and it's the same with the sizes of stars. As I have learned other existing business processes used by the company, I used them along with physics concepts to figure out what kind of a star a startup client is. This is by doing engineering requirement with client owners and then researching its NAICS (North American Industry Classification System) code and assessing what kind of fuel it already has (bootstrapping). I used the BPF to introduce these startups to SBIR and STTR, America's Seed Fund Programs. I communicate and collaborate with clients to understand if they want to become a massive star where it grows and might acquire other smaller businesses, or will its goal be a low mass star that just continually orbits in the galaxy. Basically, I was doing transformational consulting which I learned from Think Dojo.

In one of my projects, I have worked directly with a startup client, and after discovery sessions found that they didn't have the business plan, the right NAICS code, did not adopt agile methods between employees, managers, and owners, doesn't do research and documentations and has no programming standards when doing Git Commits like proper commenting and how often to do commits. They have scattered atoms and molecules and they don't have the energy to properly combine these atoms and molecules to make into a full star. The company I'm working with is one of those stars that help combine these scattered atoms and molecules and provides fuel, so these startups gain fuel, grow bigger, shift focus, and to be able to orbit on their own.

To help these startups by the company during their launch period, they are fueled with new atoms of different elements and molecular combinations. I was highly involved in the mapping out the atomic elements and molecules which could be in the form of picking and structuring their NAICS code, creating OKRs and KPIs, helping get licenses and bank account, perform SWOT and PESTLE Analysis, Market Analysis, create policies, activities, and logistics. And these elements when combined create molecules (technical documentations) or even complex substances or mixtures (like a business plan or business process flows, BPFs).

I was a key player in successfully building their business plan, was a role model employee to the scientists and engineers when approaching the programming tasks by using management tools, and how to do proper technical research and documentations, creativity, and be Agile. In addition, I was able to successfully map out their NAICS Codes, finish their business plan, and create their Multiple Award Schedule (MAS).

In their programming project, I worked alongside other 6 data engineers and was an essential part in successfully migrating visualization charts from a legacy software to AWS QuickSight by developing custom algorithms. By being curious and experimenting on tried-and-true techniques aside from testing out custom algorithms with proper research and documentations, a learning I got from Note Hive with I.G.U.A.N.A. (Intelligent Guidance Using Advanced Notebook Applications), I found out that some of the visuals need not use custom algorithms but to learn how to configure the built-in systems of AWS QuickSight to create a matching data visualization from the legacy software. 

I combined my OPT and my understanding of physics that led to this startup client getting numerous projects and is now earning almost a million USD per year. 

Applying Scientific Methods, from my observation I helped in finding out pain points from employee's work efficiency which helps in the development and testing of the W4tcher App<sup>TM</sup>. These pain points may include punctuality, attendance, internet speed, lack of continuous training & development, and efficiency at work. It helps ensure optimum operation of the business because it captures the screen of the employee at random times. This is also how my employer oversees my screen activities, among other employees, while at work which affects my SMILE SCORE<sup>TM</sup>. This SMILE Score, created by Tao Learning Institute, shows my performance metric aside from the professional development sessions led by Curiosity Coaches and my GitHub profile showing my commits, comments, issues and pull requests, and project management. 

I was tasked to do a comparative analysis between Azure DevOps (Microsoft), MS Project, MS Planner, Projects on Github, Zenhub on GitHub, and Jira board for an efficient task management. My analysis at that time points to Jira board because it was trending, UX/UI friendly, and is used by many startup businesses. But if there are a lot of open-source projects where we invite external contributors then we should go for GitHub.

The company did implement the learning and development of Atlassian tools to all employees and when we got a project using Atlassian tools, which includes Jira board, then everyone was equipped to handle the project.

However, for internal task management, to get a team-oriented project inside Jira, an employee needs to be onboarded into our company and use the company email for more access and I found out that it is taxing work to the IT Admin and not cost-efficient. Therefore, overtime we completely move all our task management and milestones on GitHub from Microsoft Planner and Azure DevOps. I am currently a code maintainer for various transports of this company to check Git commits, issues, and pull requests.

To summarize, I've had my struggles in the beginning of the OPT as an applied physicist, but in my first year of extension I have become more of an asset overtime. This is by connecting STEM across the globe, collaborating with non-profits, and with business startups doing transformational consulting.
